Finding pattern in large graphs (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GBzoNgqF-gQ)
Lecture by Christos Faloustos


Require larger data to spot anomalies/rarities, discover patterns

Real graphs are not random - 	six degrees of separation (diameter of graph),
								in- and out- degree distributions,
								other patterns in graph

Degree distribution reveals a pattern (Power law)
Eigenvalues also show a pattern

Other examples of real world graphs where a pattern was observed - 
web hit counts, epinions.com, duration of downloads, duration of Unix jobs, etc.

Pattern wrt triangles - 
friends of friends of friends become friends of friends over time. (Triangles close in social networks).

Number of triangles based on degree has strong linear correlation. 

Computing triangles is computationally expensive. (3-way join) (find neighbours. Then find neighbours of neighbours. Then see if neighbours of neighbours are your neighbours.)
But there's a formula - #Triangles = Sum(eigenvalue^3)/6
We only need a top few eigenvalues due to skewness of eigenvalue distribution.


EigenSpokes = Eigenvectors of adjacency matrix
Plotting high (nearly 1 million) dimension data of callers and taking SVD eigenvector projection on first two eigenvectors (thus reducing it two two dimensions) gives weird results
Gives spokes (L-shaped data distribution along principle axes at 90 degree angle), across time and locations
Same observed in mobile social graphs and patent citation graph
Reason - High connectivity in clusters (Good communities), same people call each other a lot of times, a dense adjacency matrix
Eigenspokes is a good method of spotting dense communities in high dimensional data


Weighted graphs
e.g. - Election campaign donations
A linear pattern observed in number of donors and total amount gathered (Snapshot power law)


Time evolving graphs
(1) Diameter of a graph shrinks as the size of data grows (contradictory with general assumption that diameter would grow in log(n) proportion as size of graph grows)
(2) As number of nodes doubles in a graph, the number of edges over-doubles (Densification power law)
(3) Change in disconnected components in time (or second largest connected component)
	- they grow in size (close friends keep a close circle)
	- the connected components merge and the shorter one disappears
	- they stabilize as time passes
(4) Popularity of blog over time - not exponential; but power law


Power law with slope -1.5 has interesting properties


Call durations vs Number of calls - TLAC T distribution (TLaC - The Lazy Contractor)
Graph is in shape of a parabola


Oddball - Spotting anomalies in weighted graphs
For each node, extract ego-get. Then extract some features. And then compare with rest of the population.
Features selected = degree of node, number of edges in ego-net of node, total weight of ego-net of node, principal eigenvalue of weighted adjacency matrix for ego-net of node


Ebay - Fraud detection
A fraud person creates multiple fake accounts, and gives positive feedback to his own fake accounts, thus falsly identifying himself as a trustworthy seller. How to detect this? This closely connected network between false accounts is similar to a nearly complete bi-partite clique.


Immunization using limited number of vaccines 
Epidemic threshold depends on network connectivity = 1/lambda_1 (the first eigenvalue of the adjacency matrix)
Strength of virus < threshold, virus dies quickly; else an epidemic
S = attack prob/healing prob
